DOCS-1065: Add Viam Triton server module information to modular resources examples (#1924)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/extend/modular-resources/examples/triton.md

---
title: "Add a Triton MLModel Modular Service"
linkTitle: "Triton MLModel Modular Service"
weight: 70
type: "docs"
description: "Add an ML model modular service backed by NVIDIA's Triton Server."
tags: ["ml", "model training", "services"]
# SMEs: Abe Winter, Andrew Morrow
---

Viam provides a MLModel service resource backed by NVIDIA's [Triton Inference Server](https://developer.nvidia.com/triton-inference-server), open-source software that makes AI model deployment and execution seamless and standardized.
Configure this MLModel service as a [modular resource](/extend/modular-resources/) on your robot with a [`jetson` board](/components/board/jetson/) to deploy MLModels to your robot faster while consuming less compute power.

Usage information is also available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-mlmodelservice-triton).

## Requirements

A NVIDIA Jetson Orin board with the following installed:

> 1. [Jetpack 5](https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/jetpack-sdk-502)

Reviewer: The link here is to a specific version, but really it just needs to be Jetpack 5, so https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/jetpack is probably better. Eventually we are going to require JetPack 6.

Author: Sounds good to me, thanks! Changed

> 1. [Jetpack 5](https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/jetpack-sdk-502)

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Jetpack 5](https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/jetpack)
```

2. NVIDIA Container Runtime

Run the following to install `nvidia-jetpack` and `nvidia-container` on your robot's computer:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
sudo apt-get install nvidia-jetpack nvidia-container
```

> 

Author: gotcha, thank you!! For my information-- how do you identify which version was pulled, is there a command? Can add that in but I am not good with docker @acmorrow

> 

Reviewer: Sadly, there doesn't seem to be a good and simple way to do this. There are ways to do it but I'm worried the cure is worse, etc. I think I'd say something like "run `docker images ghcr.io/viamrobotics/viam-mlmodelservice-triton`" and examine the output to find the exact tag associated with `latest`".

Then, if you haven't done so already, create a new robot in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
[Install `viam-server` on the board](/installation/prepare/jetson-agx-orin-setup/) and connect to the robot.

## Configuration

{{< tabs name="Add the Triton modular service">}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Navigate to the **Config** tab of your robot’s page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the **Services** subtab and click the **Create service** button.
Search for `triton`, then select the version from the [Registry](https://app.viam.com/registry).
Give your resource a name of your choice and click **Create**.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

Add the following to your `"modules"` array:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "type": "registry",
  "name": "viam_mlmodelservice-triton-jetpack",
  "module_id": "viam:mlmodelservice-triton-jetpack",

>   "version": "latest"

Author: ```suggestion
  "version": "0.4.0"
```

>   "version": "latest"

Author: Ok that makes sense, updating to `0.4.0`

}
```

Add the following to your `"services"` array:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "name": "my-triton-module",
  "type": "mlmodel",
  "namespace": "rdk",
  "model": "viam:mlmodelservice:triton"
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The model will now be configured with a card like the following:

> ![The triton service card in the Viam app config builder, showing deployment options.](/extend/modular-resources/triton/triton-config-builder.png)

Reviewer: I think the `png` should be dropped.

Author: Hmmm- I see how that makes sense but then how will users know what card they should be ignoring? I think it might help for confusion to have the png and more explicitly explain

> ![The triton service card in the Viam app config builder, showing deployment options.](/extend/modular-resources/triton/triton-config-builder.png)

Reviewer: There is no config builder for the triton module. The config on that card is specific to the tflite_cpu service. I do not know how that is supposed to be addressed: the space of modules is open so we can't know how to make a fancy config for each one.

Author: @acmorrow Ahhh gotcha. That could be confusing to users for now-- do you think lines 74-75 update is helpful?

Reviewer: Yeah, I think that's the right direction. I might make it even stronger and say "are not applicable for this module, and should be left blank".

Author: @acmorrow Sounds good, done!

> Note that the parameters shown, `"model_path"`, `"label_path"`, and `"num_threads"` are not applicable to deploying a model on your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that the parameters shown, `"model_path"`, `"label_path"`, and `"num_threads"` are not applicable for this module, and should be left blank.
```

> You control a `viam:mlmodelservice:triton` modular resource like you would a built-in resource, so the parameters shown, `"model_path"`, `"label_path"`, and `"num_threads"` are the same as a built-in MLModel service.

Reviewer: Like the above, this isn't actually true. The triton module has its own different attributes that must be configured.

### Create a repository to store the ML model to deploy

Currently, you must manually create a Triton [model repository](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_repository.html).
On your robot's Jetson computer, create a [structured repository](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_repository.html) under the `~/.viam` directory.
The exact subpath under `~/.viam` does not matter.

For example, after unpacking the module, to add the [EfficientDet-Lite4 Object Detection](https://tfhub.dev/tensorflow/efficientdet/lite4/detection/2) model, place the model repository under `~/.viam/triton/repository`:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
$ tree ~/.viam
~/.viam
├── cached_cloud_config_05536cf6-f8a6-464f-b05c-bf1e57e9d1d9.json
└── triton
    └── repository
        └── efficientdet-lite4-detection
            ├── 1
            │   └── model.savedmodel
            │       ├── saved_model.pb
            │       └── variables
            │           ├── variables.data-00000-of-00001
            │           └── variables.index
            └── config.pbext
```

> The <file>config.pbext</file> file must exist, but at least for TensorFlow models it can be empty.

Author: Sounds good, added

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "type": "mlmodel",
  "attributes": {
    "model_name": "efficientdet-lite4-detection",
    "model_repository_path": "/path/to/.viam/triton/repository"
  },
  "model": "viam:mlmodelservice:triton",
  "name": "mlmodel-effdet-triton"
}
```

An example detailed configuration with optional parameters specified would look like this:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "type": "mlmodel",
  "attributes": {
    "backend_directory": "/opt/tritonserver/backends",
    "model_name": "efficientdet-lite4-detection",
    "model_version": 1,
    "model_repository_path": "/path/to/.viam/triton/repository",
    "preferred_input_memory_type_id": 0,
    "preferred_input_memory_type": "gpu",
    "tensor_name_remappings": {
      "outputs": {
        "output_3": "n_detections",
        "output_0": "location",
        "output_1": "score",
        "output_2": "category"
      },
      "inputs": {
        "images": "image"
      }
    }
  },
  "model": "viam:mlmodelservice:triton",
  "name": "mlmodel-effdet-triton"
}
```

## Next steps: configure a vision service

> Now, use the `viam:mlmodelservice:triton` modular service to deploy MLModels to your robot.

Reviewer: This sentence seems out of place.

Author: Does `make use of` sound better? I guess deploy is misleading as it doesn't happen here. Can just remove sentence outright but want some kind of intro

> Now, use the `viam:mlmodelservice:triton` modular service to deploy MLModels to your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, use the `viam:mlmodelservice:triton` modular service to make use of MLModels on your robot.
```

---
title: "Add a Triton MLModel Modular Service"
linkTitle: "Triton MLModel Modular Service"
weight: 70
type: "docs"
description: "Add an ML model modular service backed by NVIDIA's Triton Server."
tags: ["ml", "model training", "services"]
# SMEs: Abe Winter, Andrew Morrow
---

Viam provides a MLModel service resource backed by NVIDIA's [Triton Inference Server](https://developer.nvidia.com/triton-inference-server), open-source software that makes AI model deployment and execution seamless and standardized.
Configure this MLModel service as a [modular resource](/extend/modular-resources/) on your robot with a [`jetson` board](/components/board/jetson/) to deploy MLModels to your robot faster while consuming less compute power.

Usage information is also available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-mlmodelservice-triton).

## Requirements

A NVIDIA Jetson Orin board with the following installed:

1. [Jetpack 5](https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/jetpack-sdk-502)
2. NVIDIA Container Runtime

Run the following to install `nvidia-jetpack` and `nvidia-container` on your robot's computer:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
sudo apt install nvidia-jetpack

> sudo apt-get install nvidia-container

Author: That seems fine to me, done!

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "type": "mlmodel",
  "attributes": {
    "model_name": "efficientdet-lite4-detection",
    "model_repository_path": "/path/to/.viam/triton/repository"
  },
  "model": "viam:mlmodelservice:triton",
  "name": "mlmodel-effdet-triton"
}
```

An example detailed configuration with optional parameters specified would look like this:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "type": "mlmodel",
  "attributes": {
    "backend_directory": "/opt/tritonserver/backends",
    "model_name": "efficientdet-lite4-detection",
    "model_version": 1,
    "model_repository_path": "/path/to/.viam/triton/repository",
    "preferred_input_memory_type_id": 0,
    "preferred_input_memory_type": "gpu",
    "tensor_name_remappings": {
      "outputs": {
        "output_3": "n_detections",
        "output_0": "location",
        "output_1": "score",
        "output_2": "category"
      },
      "inputs": {
        "images": "image"
      }
    }
  },
  "model": "viam:mlmodelservice:triton",
  "name": "mlmodel-effdet-triton"
}
```

## Next steps: configure a vision service

> Now, use the `triton` service to deploy MLModels to your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, use the `viam:mlmodelservice:triton` modular service to deploy MLModels to your robot.
```

### Create a repository to store the ML model to deploy

Currently, you must manually create a Triton [model repository](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_repository.html).
On your robot's Jetson computer, create a [structured repository](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_repository.html) under the `~/.viam` directory.
The exact subpath under `~/.viam` does not matter.

For example, after unpacking the module, to add the [EfficientDet-Lite4 Object Detection](https://tfhub.dev/tensorflow/efficientdet/lite4/detection/2) model, place the model repository under `~/.viam/triton/repository`:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
$ tree ~/.viam
~/.viam
├── cached_cloud_config_05536cf6-f8a6-464f-b05c-bf1e57e9d1d9.json
└── triton
    └── repository
        └── efficientdet-lite4-detection
            ├── 1
            │   └── model.savedmodel
            │       ├── saved_model.pb
            │       └── variables
            │           ├── variables.data-00000-of-00001
            │           └── variables.index
            └── config.pbext
```

> The <file>config.pbext</file> file must exist, but at least for TensorFlow models it can be empty.

Author: ```suggestion
The <file>config.pbext</file> file must exist, but at least for TensorFlow models it can be empty.
For other types of models, please consult the [Triton Server model repository documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_repository.html) for details on the correct contents of the <file>config.pbext</file> file.
```

tags: ["ml", "model training", "services"]
# SMEs: Abe Winter, Andrew Morrow
---

Viam provides a MLModel service resource backed by NVIDIA's [Triton Inference Server](https://developer.nvidia.com/triton-inference-server), open-source software that makes AI model deployment and execution seamless and standardized.
Configure this MLModel service as a [modular resource](/extend/modular-resources/) on your robot with a [`jetson` board](/components/board/jetson/) to deploy MLModels to your robot faster while consuming less compute power.

Usage information is also available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-mlmodelservice-triton).

## Requirements

A NVIDIA Jetson Orin board with the following installed:

1. [Jetpack 5](https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/jetpack)
2. NVIDIA Container Runtime

Run the following to install `nvidia-jetpack` and `nvidia-container` on your robot's computer:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
sudo apt-get install nvidia-jetpack nvidia-container
```

Pull the triton module docker container:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
docker pull ghcr.io/viamrobotics/viam-mlmodelservice-triton:latest
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Examine the output to find the exact tag associated with latest.
Use this as `"version"` in [configuration](#configuration).
```

Then, if you haven't done so already, create a new robot in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
[Install `viam-server` on the board](/installation/prepare/jetson-agx-orin-setup/) and connect to the robot.

## Configuration

{{< tabs name="Add the Triton modular service">}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Navigate to the **Config** tab of your robot’s page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the **Services** subtab and click the **Create service** button.
Search for `triton`, then select the version from the [Registry](https://app.viam.com/registry).
Give your resource a name of your choice and click **Create**.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

Add the following to your `"modules"` array:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "type": "registry",
  "name": "viam_mlmodelservice-triton-jetpack",
  "module_id": "viam:mlmodelservice-triton-jetpack",
  "version": "0.4.0"
}
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Replace the value of the version field with the value you determined above with the `docker pull` command.
```

For example, after unpacking the module, to add the [EfficientDet-Lite4 Object Detection](https://tfhub.dev/tensorflow/efficientdet/lite4/detection/2) model, place the model repository under `~/.viam/triton/repository`:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
$ tree ~/.viam
~/.viam
├── cached_cloud_config_05536cf6-f8a6-464f-b05c-bf1e57e9d1d9.json
└── triton
    └── repository
        └── efficientdet-lite4-detection
            ├── 1
            │   └── model.savedmodel
            │       ├── saved_model.pb
            │       └── variables
            │           ├── variables.data-00000-of-00001
            │           └── variables.index
            └── config.pbext
```

The <file>config.pbext</file> file must exist, but at least for TensorFlow models it can be empty.
For other types of models, please consult the [Triton Server model repository documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_repository.html) for details on the correct contents of the <file>config.pbext</file> file.
The version here is `1` but it can be any positive integer.
Newer versions will be preferred by default.

### Attributes

> The following attributes are available for the MLModel service `viam:mlmodelservice:triton`:

Author: ```suggestion
After creating your model repository, configure the attributes to deploy your model on your robot.
The following attributes are available for the MLModel service `viam:mlmodelservice:triton`:
```
@acmorrow re. call to action-- would this be correct? Apologies if confusion

Reviewer: That seems fine.

Author: cool, added!

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "type": "mlmodel",
  "attributes": {
    "model_name": "efficientdet-lite4-detection",
    "model_repository_path": "/path/to/.viam/triton/repository"
  },
  "model": "viam:mlmodelservice:triton",
  "name": "mlmodel-effdet-triton"
}
```

An example detailed configuration with optional parameters specified would look like this:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "type": "mlmodel",
  "attributes": {
    "backend_directory": "/opt/tritonserver/backends",
    "model_name": "efficientdet-lite4-detection",
    "model_version": 1,
    "model_repository_path": "/path/to/.viam/triton/repository",
    "preferred_input_memory_type_id": 0,
    "preferred_input_memory_type": "gpu",
    "tensor_name_remappings": {
      "outputs": {
        "output_3": "n_detections",
        "output_0": "location",
        "output_1": "score",
        "output_2": "category"
      },
      "inputs": {
        "images": "image"
      }
    }
  },
  "model": "viam:mlmodelservice:triton",
  "name": "mlmodel-effdet-triton"
}
```

## Next steps: configure a vision service

> Now, use the `viam:mlmodelservice:triton` modular service to make use of MLModels on your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, use the `viam:mlmodelservice:triton` modular service to perform inference with the machine learning models available in the Triton service's model repository on your robot.
```

Configure this MLModel service as a [modular resource](/extend/modular-resources/) on your robot with a [`jetson` board](/components/board/jetson/) to deploy MLModels to your robot faster while consuming less compute power.

Usage information is also available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-mlmodelservice-triton).

## Requirements

A NVIDIA Jetson Orin board with the following installed:

1. [Jetpack 5](https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/jetpack)
2. NVIDIA Container Runtime

Run the following to install `nvidia-jetpack` and `nvidia-container` on your robot's computer:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
sudo apt-get install nvidia-jetpack nvidia-container
```

Pull the triton module docker container:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
docker pull ghcr.io/viamrobotics/viam-mlmodelservice-triton:latest
```

Examine the output to find the exact tag associated with latest.
Use this as `"version"` in [configuration](#configuration).

> Then, if you haven't done so already, create a new robot in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

Author: ```suggestion

Then, if you haven't done so already, create a new robot in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
```

[Install `viam-server` on the board](/installation/prepare/jetson-agx-orin-setup/) and connect to the robot.

## Configuration

{{< tabs name="Add the Triton modular service">}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Navigate to the **Config** tab of your robot’s page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the **Services** subtab and click the **Create service** button.
Search for `triton`, then select the version from the [Registry](https://app.viam.com/registry).
Give your resource a name of your choice and click **Create**.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

Add the following to your `"modules"` array:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "type": "registry",
  "name": "viam_mlmodelservice-triton-jetpack",
  "module_id": "viam:mlmodelservice-triton-jetpack",
  "version": "0.4.0"
}
```

> Replace the value of the version field with the value you determined above with the `docker pull` command.

Author: ```suggestion
Replace the value of the `"version"` field with the value you determined above with the `docker pull` command.
```

> Add the following to your `"services"` array:

Author: ```suggestion

Add the following to your `"services"` array:
```

  "type": "mlmodel",
  "attributes": {
    "backend_directory": "/opt/tritonserver/backends",
    "model_name": "efficientdet-lite4-detection",
    "model_version": 1,
    "model_repository_path": "/path/to/.viam/triton/repository",
    "preferred_input_memory_type_id": 0,
    "preferred_input_memory_type": "gpu",
    "tensor_name_remappings": {
      "outputs": {
        "output_3": "n_detections",
        "output_0": "location",
        "output_1": "score",
        "output_2": "category"
      },
      "inputs": {
        "images": "image"
      }
    }
  },
  "model": "viam:mlmodelservice:triton",
  "name": "mlmodel-effdet-triton"
}
```

## Next steps: configure a vision service

Now, use the `viam:mlmodelservice:triton` modular service to perform inference with the machine learning models available in the Triton service's model repository on your robot.
You can now create a [vision service](/services/vision/) with a configuration in your `"services"` array like the following:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "attributes": {
    "mlmodel_name": "mlmodel-effdet-triton"
  },
  "model": "mlmodel",
  "name": "vision-effdet-triton",
  "type": "vision"
}
```

> You can now connect this vision service to a [transform camera](/components/camera/transform), or get detections programmatically through one of Viam's [client SDKs](/program/).

Author: ```suggestion
You can now connect this vision service to a [transform camera](/components/camera/transform/), or get detections programmatically through one of Viam's [client SDKs](/program/).
```

  "type": "registry",
  "name": "viam_mlmodelservice-triton-jetpack",
  "module_id": "viam:mlmodelservice-triton-jetpack",

>   "version": "0.4.0"

Reviewer: Let's add some text right below this that says "replace the value of the `version` field with the value you determined above with the `docker images` command".

### Attributes

> The following attributes are available for the MLModel service `viam:mlmodelservice:triton`:

Author: Added suggestion in comment @acmorrow LMK what you think, want to make sure I accurately understand

## Next steps: configure a vision service

> Now, use the `viam:mlmodelservice:triton` modular service to make use of MLModels on your robot.

Author: perfect, added!
